New Post: GUI Challenges - Theme Switch (#7170)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/building-a-theme-switch-component/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Building a theme switch component
subhead: A foundational overview of how to build an adaptive and accessible theme switch component.
authors:
  - adamargyle
description: A foundational overview of how to build an adaptive and accessible theme switch component.
date: 2022-01-19
thumbnail: image/vS06HQ1YTsbMKSFTIPl2iogUQP73/Us7qjkapii7sZurl0glF.png

> hero: image/vS06HQ1YTsbMKSFTIPl2iogUQP73/skKcjSv1gMQRYk1AdEp7.png

Author: ty!

tags:
  - blog
  - css
  - dom
  - javascript
---

> In this post I want to share thinking on a way to build breadcrumb components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post I want to share thinking on a way to build a dark and light theme switch component.
```

`touch-action: manipulation` for a [fast reacting touch
experience](https://twitter.com/argyleink/status/1405881231695302659?s=20).
Remove the semi-transparent highlight iOS applies to buttons. Last, give the
focus state outline some breathing room from the edge of the element:

```css/12-15/
.theme-toggle {
  --size: 2rem;

  background: none;
  border: none;
  padding: 0;

  inline-size: var(--size);
  block-size: var(--size);
  aspect-ratio: 1;
  border-radius: 50%;

  cursor: pointer;
  touch-action: manipulation;
  -webkit-tap-highlight-color: transparent;
  outline-offset: 5px;
}
```

The SVG inside of the button needs some styles as well. The SVG should fit the size of the button and, for visual softness, round out the line ends:

```css/16-20/
.theme-toggle {
  --size: 2rem;

  background: none;
  border: none;
  padding: 0;

  inline-size: var(--size);
  block-size: var(--size);
  aspect-ratio: 1;
  border-radius: 50%;

  cursor: pointer;
  touch-action: manipulation;
  -webkit-tap-highlight-color: transparent;
  outline-offset: 5px;

  & > svg {
    inline-size: 100%;
    block-size: 100%;
    stroke-linecap: round;
  }
}
```

> {% Aside 'key-term' %} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %} 
```
